Dear Internet,

I am the content I produce. I live and die by it. I am judged by it. But I am not fixed by it. My content is a snapshot of who I am today. It is not evocative of who I will be tomorrow. My content is my cross to bear. My content is my burden to shed. And without my content, I can neither be redeemed nor redeem.

We are transfixed to the cross of content. We are perplexed by the nuance of redemption. And, I fear, we are at an impasse. Whatever the cause, we are paralyzed with fear; we all. I too. And I believe no one among us feels differently.

We are dynamic beings. We flit from thing to thing. With the reading of a choice phrase, we are flipped with the simplicity of a coin. We are beings with the capacity for erring. More importantly, we are beings with the capacity for un-erring. This is the very essence of redemption. Not one of us is in perfect grace. And not one of us desires to live outside of that grace. But to find what is within perfect grace, we must be uncomfortable. We must shed our burdens. We must pick up our crosses.

I am dismayed at the state of secular redemption. The right to change one’s mind is at stake. The right to fix one’s errings is being undermined. I am saddened. I am scared. I am observing the arc of history bend toward a smiling despondency. We are unaware of the state of our souls. And I fear we are filling our pockets with the stones of resentment, unforgiveness. We unquestioningly march toward the sea of relational insouciance. And there we will find ourselves given to its depths. We are to die in vainglory under the weight of what we can simply remove from our pockets. We die because we forget how to forgive. We die because we forget how to be forgiven. We die, most of all, because we make it impossible to forgive ourselves. And we die in vain. We do not die in the pursuit of purpose. Not anymore.

How will I disagree with you while recognizing your humanity gives you the right to say the things you say? How will I do that when even recognizing your humanity will cast me into disgrace? How will I even see your humanity when its manifestation is burned to the ground? For you are your content, as I am. How will you defend your humanity when it is in the hands of technological despots who cast it asunder? How can the evidence of your personhood be presented when the evidence is a dime novel written by your enemies?

We are again burning books. It is under the paternalistic auspices of protecting the vulnerable. It is at the expense of our redemptions. There is underway a technological genocide, the removal of personhood. We walk toward hell with our eyes wide open. We walk past Descartes, and Frankl, and Socrates. We walk past Virgil, and Diogenes, and Suetonius. We forget, or perhaps deign, the necessity of acerbic cynics and thoughtful philosophers. And to hell we march.

I fear when we arrive, Satan will have no plates upon his back for us to scale. Hell will be a happy place of our own making. It will be happy, and purposeless. In so, it will be unsatisfying. And we will look around and realize that all we walked past was the redemption of knowledge. In hell we will realize that sanitizing the world of evil leaves us with nothing good. In hell we will live in the blissful, dissatisfying ignorance of truth. Redemption was in the content of all the things we refused to look at. And we, ourselves, will live meaninglessly. We will live awaiting death. We will live only to already be dead. With no redemption, life ceases.

What’s more, it will be a hell of our own design. We will build ourselves an archipelago. And how appropriate that will be. There, we will be alone. We will be imprisoned by a chasm of knowledge. We will stay there or cast ourselves to that abyss. Both fates are the same. And we will do it with pure intentions.

Content is a sacred cow. It is not to be touched or callously fiddled with. Its existence is our existence. And we do away with it at our peril. I pray, perhaps, someday you will come around. But I fear you have fully tipped. And, in so doing, you have killed us all.


Sincerely,


pressedpoop
